##Baby Want Software: Software Development and the Logic of the Unconscious
>"Instant gratification takes too long."
-*Carrie Fisher*

The unconscious has its own logic. The unconscious has its own desires and needs. These are always with us and they are so close to us that often we can't see them (they are after all unconscious) and because we can't see them it is very difficult to question them.  One really important thing to understand about these unconscious desires is that there is no requirement that if they are contradictory, they will **not** cancel each other out.

The unconscious won't stop and can't be argued with.  At least, it can't be argued with using physical logic.

The unconscious also has axioms – things that it holds to be true that ,for the most part, cannot be dislodged or argued with.

For example, there is a powerful unconscious desire to continue doing what we've always done. There is also a powerful unconscious desire to be interested in novelty.

There's a powerful unconscious desire to fit in. There is also a powerful unconscious desire to stand out, to be unique, and individual.

Some of the motivating factors that Robert Cialdini outlines in his book "Influence: The Psychology of Persuasion" can be articulated as unconscious desires.  These aren't necessarily contradictory to each other, but they can be contradictory to reality, to obvious, physical logic, and that won't stop them.

###Commitment and Consistency
Good people keep their word. Good people - the kind of hugely successful people who get biographies written about them - stick to their word. Don't they? They do what they say they're going to do. Don't they? 

Do they? Pick up a biography of anyone successful, be it artist, politician or entrepreneur and read it. Is that really how they became successful? Or was success rather a response to changing circumstances? Look for examples where of breaking promises, leaving an ex-wife, dumping a boyfriend, going solo, sacking the drummer, or simply recognising a new opportunity and seizing it, even though it was totally inconsistent with previous commitments. You'll see lots of them.

##Scarcity
Things are scarce. Things that people want most, are scarce. You mean like cars? Mobile phones? Health care? Education?

##Fitting In
You should do what everybody else does. Should you?

##Indebtedness
If someone does you a favour, you owe them a favour. Don't you?

##Respect Authority

##Getting what you want
Successful people get what they want.  Don't they?



